## DBT Project

# Cow-Jacket Automation: E-commerce dbt Pipeline

This repository contains the **dbt (Data Build Tool)** transformation layer for an e-commerce data pipeline about a company. It is designed to take raw transactional data and transform it into a structured, analytics-ready format following industry-standard data modeling practices.

---

## 📖 Project Overview

The **Cow-Jacket-Automation** project serves as the processing engine of an e-commerce data stack. It focuses on converting raw ingestion tables into a clean star schema, enabling business intelligence and advanced analytics.

By utilizing **dbt**, this project ensures that all data transformations are version-controlled, documented, and rigorously tested before reaching the production warehouse.

### Core Objectives
* **Business Logic:** Calculating loyalty points and order metrics.
* **Reliability:** Enforcing data integrity with custom singular tests.
* **Testing:** Writing test to see if data corresponds to required company data standards

---

## 🏗️ Data Architecture

### 1. Staging Layer (`models/staging`)
It is stored as a view in the data warehouse
This layer acts as the entry point wit key features like:
* Selecting required columns
* Generic tests in the _Schema.yml file
* Tables documentation in the _source.yml file


### 2. Intermediate Layer(`models/intermediate`)
This layer contains data transformations; joins etc. It is stored as a views . Key features include
* **`int_customer_order_histroy.sql`: Tracking customer orders history over time.**
* **`int_customer_order_summary.sql`:  Orders summary (i.e order_items) of orders made by customers.**
* **`int_sumary_cust_loyalty.sql`: Investigating customers loyalty i.e sum of loyalty_points acquired over time**
* **`int_revenue_categorization.sql`: Distribution of revenue generated by products ordered.**
* **`int_loyalty_points_source_grouping.sql` :Investigating the sources of loyalty points for customers with the lowest point displayed at the top and highest at the bottom between[Referred, Promotion, Ordered]**


### 3. Marts Layer (`models/marts`)
The "Gold" layer where business-ready data is stored. Data is stored as a table.
## 🛠️ Key Features

* **Custom Data Quality Tests:** Includes specialized singular tests, such as `assert_positive_numerical_values`, which prevent negative values in critical financial columns (e.g., price, quantity, or points).
* **Modular SQL:** Leveraging Jinja templates and macros to keep the codebase DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself) and maintainable.

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites
* **dbt-core** (installed via pip)
* A supported data warehouse (e.g., Snowflake, BigQuery, or PostgreSQL) with schemas and databases



### Installation & Usage

1. **Clone the Repo:**
   ```bash
   git clone [https://github.com/Human-Gechi/Cow-Jacket-Automation-Using-DBT.git](https://github.com/Human-Gechi/Cow-Jacket-Automation-Using-DBT.git)
   cd Cow-Jacket-Automation-Using-DBT
